Well, we have packed the house
this morning, so make sure, um, you
leave room for those around you.
Okay.
Um, I know that, uh, whenever you,
uh, have been involved in a church
long enough, there's key days when
you don't typically see people.
One of those is this Sunday.
Um, another one's January 1st.
Do you know that like the first sun, I see
January 1st, but like the first Sunday in
January, or the last Sunday in December.
Obviously it's not Christmas
time, but is usually what they
call youth Pastor Sundays.
That's when the youth pastor actually
gets to preach because nobody
shows up and the pastor doesn't
have to worry about what they say.
Um, so, you know, you get days like that
and so still, uh, I think these days are
awesome opportunity for us to gather.
And so thank you guys for coming out.
I know there may be several that are
watching online because of sickness,
and so we we're praying for you.
Um, and I know it seems like
every conversation I have, you've
been getting done with sickness.
If you're here today, you're
probably like, Hey, we had that
last week, so we're here this week.
So super glad that you guys are here.
Um, and so those of you who
haven't gotten sick, Me included.
Let's just keep it that
way and then we'll be good.
Um, but so today is, um, kind of our start
of transitioning out of the Thanksgiving,
uh, season, right, and into Christmas.
I know it's not officially December, but
for those of you who have to get through
Thanksgiving, before you'll ever celebrate
Christmas, you can celebrate Christmas.
Now, for those of you who already started,
like Brittany, We'll just continue on.
Okay.
We'll just continue on
doing what we've been doing.
Um, but, uh, it's always a great time
of the year to think about how we can
emphasize the season of Christmas.
Um, I, I know this, that at times, um, it
can just get crazy cuz we're thinking of.
All the Christmas parties, we gotta
go to all the Christmas gifts.
We've gotta buy, uh, finishing
work and finishing school before
everything, you know, shuts down
or where are we traveling to.
And so we can really get distracted
behind really what Christmas is all about.
And, uh, because of that, I think
it's always good to take some time
to step away from the series we were
just in, in second Timothy, and to be
able to dive into, um, really where
we get to spend four weeks of talking.
Nothing about.
Nothing about anything,
but other than Jesus.
And I don't know about you guys,
but I think that's probably a good
thing if maybe we just talk about
Jesus every single time we come.
Now, I hope I do.
And the other series.
But a lot of times we're looking at
very practical like life application
things that we obviously know
that Jesus guides us and directs
our life and things like that.
But even that, sometimes we can get to the
end and be like, yeah, but Jesus empowers
us, but this is gonna be all about Jesus.
So we're gonna be talking about.
Um, in Isaiah chapter nine in verse six,
it talks about four names of the coming
Messiah, wonderful counselor, mighty
God, eternal Father, and Prince of Peace.
Um, and so we're gonna cover
one each week, and this week
we'll cover wonderful counselor.
Um, and in the midst of that we're
gonna dive into some other things.
And here's the cool part.
Um, today we.
Talk a lot about context
setting background.
We're gonna talk a lot about how
we got to this point in Isaiah and,
and, and learning a little bit.
My hope is to be able to teach all
of us something new about God's word,
um, and, and to learn a little bit.
So hopefully you guys
have come ready for that.
So, when you think about Christmas,
I wanna start with this question.
When you think about Christmas,
what do you think about?
Like, what's the first thing
that pops into your mind
when you think of Christmas?
Don't use the whole word.
Jesus.
I know that's gonna be this number one.
So we'll just take that one off the board.
Next go.
Fruitcake family.
Christmas tree ornaments resides.
Whoa, Ola.
Oh, home alone.
I was just like, Olaf.
Do you wanna be able to
snowman, I mean, Yes.
All those things, right?
We think about all these different things.
And again, those things are so
good because, I mean, I, I know
this so you guys know, I'm a
little bit new to Christmas.
Um, I actually grew up
not celebrating Christmas.
Um, and, and I really didn't
celebrate until I met Brit.
Uh, and the reason why we didn't
celebrate is because most of it was
mainly because it, it was a Pagan holiday.
And from my parents' perspective
is, is it didn't really, it wasn't
Jesus' birthday and it really,
It was taken over by culture.
Right.
Um, so we didn't celebrate.
So I didn't know anything about presents.
I didn't know anything about Santa.
I mean, I watched home Alone, um, but
I really didn't know much about it.
Um, and then whenever I met Brittany,
she started celebrating or she,
we'd always celebrate Christmas.
And so I'm like, okay, let
me, I guess it's gifts.
So I started joining in buying gifts
and that's what I thought I was about.
And then I gave my life to
Christ and then it changed.
Christmas totally changed for me because
again, one, I didn't grow up with it.
But then, you know, I went from this
all about presents to, hey, there's
actually a meaning behind this more
than this tree in these presents.
And those things are good.
And I don't know if you've ever
read a children's book, uh,
where it talks about that, right?
Where it talks about presents are good,
trees are good, all these things are good.
But the reason that we celebrate
Christmas is because of what Christ
did for us and Christ coming, uh,
and, and all these good things.
And so I think about it this way.
It's easy to forget.
Why we have Christmas when we have
so many other things that consume us.
And so I'm hoping that through this series
we'll just be drawn into who Jesus is.
Uh, who the coming Messiah as Isaac
is talking about is, is what, uh, he
is giving us through the way in which
he, um, relates to us as a wonderful
counselor or a mighty God, or an
eternal father, or a prince of peace.
And I, I think about this, that when we
think about, uh, Christmas, we should not
miss the, the heart of it, but also not
get also distracted from, um, not only
even just the purpose of it, but, but
even this, I would say this in everything
we do in Christmas with the Christmas
season Jesus in is in every part of it.
When you give a gift.
You can actually give a gift from
the heart of what Jesus did for you.
Whenever you go and see the lights,
like we went to Kings Island last
night and we got to see all these
amazing lights and the smells.
Oh man, I was so hungry.
Smells were so good.
You know what it makes me think the
blessing it has to be able to have
taste and smell and eyes to see.
So in all of that, I, I'm hoping that
when we see this coming, Messiah meant to
save us from our sins, but also to give
us a hope and, and a life and something
exciting that we can see all these things
during this season as a blessing from God.
And not look at them as, hey,
we have to separate them, right?
Because we don't have to just have no,
no Christmas and just all about Christ
or no Christ and all about Christmas.
We can have both in all of that.
Um, and so we need to
continue to, to do that.
Um, and so I want us to jump into
this text in Isaiah chapter nine.
Starting in verse six, we're just
gonna cover verse six and seven.
And again, we're just gonna cover a
portion of it this week, and we'll
do that for the next three weeks.
After this, I'm gonna make sure
we catch everybody up as well.
So here's what it says in verse six.
It says, for a child will be born for us.
A son will be given to us and
the government will be on his
shoulders and he will be named.
Wonderful counselor, mighty God,
eternal father and prince of peace.
The dominion will be vast and its
prosperity will never end his reign on
the throne of David and over his kingdom
to establish and sustain it with justice
and righteousness from now on and forever.
And the zero of the Lord of
Armies will accomplish this.
So let's pray before we jump in.
Lord Jesus, we pray, Lord, that
your word, uh, will not return void.
Lord, I know that you have, um, this
word here for us today to learn and to
remind us of who you are and how you
relate to us, and why you were sent.
And, uh, Lord, I pray that we don't
leave outta here, um, without being
changed, Lord, in our hearts and
our lives and our minds, Lord.
Um, and may it draw us closer to
you and also an opportunity to see
everything we do in this season of
Christmas through, uh, the lens of, of,
of a savior that was sent, um, for us.
And so, Lord, we just pray
this in your heaven name.
So the first thing that I want to do is I
kind of want to go into a history lesson.
And, and this is the reason why I, I, I,
I consistently, as I study my Bible as
a pastor, I consistently go back to when
I was saved and looking at this Bible
as a boring book of confusing material.
And it got even more confusing because
like, I would start off in Genesis
every time anybody ever do that, like
I'm gonna read through the whole Bible
and I would get through Genesis Exo.
That's about as far, cause Leviticus
and numbers kind of got really boring,
but that's about as far as I would get.
Well then whenever I really got
good, you know, like the good
Christian, I made it to the prophets.
The prophets were, I had no clue
what the prophets were saying.
Like they just didn't make sense.
So I wanna suggest something to you
because it took a long time for me to
kinda learn how the Bible's put together.
And I'm gonna kind of talk through a
little bit of today if you're interested
in knowing how the Bible works together
and the key themes that connect together.
Some of our guys went through
a study together called How
to Study the Bible in 30 days.
You don't have to do it in 30 days.
We actually did it over like, I
don't know, three or four months.
We did it together.
Um, and it really breaks down how the
Bible connects together, how the prophets
overlay into the Old Testament and how
they are there prophesying during the
times of some of the Kings and all the
things like this is, is really cool.
Um, and so I would just suggest that book
to you, but I wanna take some time to
kind of walk through specifically here in.
And see, um, how I can help you,
uh, and us understand the setting.
So I'll look at it this way.
Who is, um, a big Marvel fan?
Anybody like watching Marvel movies?
Okay.
Um, so who knows, you
know, uh, stark, right?
What, what, what does he do?
He, he, a lot of times you see
him as this brain accurate guy.
And typically when he's trying to
solve a problem, what does he do?
He walks into a room and somehow
he pulls up all these screen.
That's one of my favorite things.
Literally all these screens are everywhere
and he starts pulling things from these
screens and like throwing 'em here.
And sometimes he crumbles 'em up and
throws 'em away and he pulls it all
together and it makes sense, right?
He usually finds something and it's
like, ah, it all comes together.
So today I wanna kind of
take some of these screens.
I'm not as cool as him, uh, and
pulls some of this together where
hopefully we can all see this together.
So it's gonna be a little
bit of a history lesson.
So when we look at this, a
prophet obviously is prophesying.
Future.
Right.
Um, and, and Isaiah specifically
was speaking to people living
in three different time periods.
Three different time periods.
One is, and I'm gonna talk through
these time periods a little bit more
in detail in just a minute, was before
the, the people of Israel were exile
to Babylon, uh, was during the people
who would be daring, the exile of
Babylon, and then those, those who
would be after the exile of Babylon.
So that's the future times.
So here was his message.
His message in Isaiah is a message
of judgment to the people of
Israel who were sending against
God and refusing to repent.
So he's like, Hey, judgment's coming.
But then he consistently filtered
in a message of hope, and what we
see here is this message of hope
is the future king and the line
of David, which will be Jesus.
So we get to see this from like in the
future, looking back for them, they
were looking for a coming Messiah.
We already know that Messiah
has come and obviously a second.
Um, but it, it, it's a different
picture for them than it is for us.
Um, so in this chapter when
we look at this, he's speaking
of the Southern kingdom.
So I'm gonna break this down cuz I wanna
make sure we're all in the same part here.
How did we get here?
I'm gonna jump to Matthew to kind
of help us pull the story together.
So if you got your Bible with you,
I want you to go to Matthew chapter.
Again, we're gonna just do some,
some learning together here.
Matthew chapter one talks about
the lineage of Jesus, starting with
Abraham, and I'm gonna read these
accounts and kind of break this down.
And so this is what it says
in Matthew chapter one.
It says, in account of the
genealogy of Jesus Christ, the
son of David, the son of Abraham.
And so it says Abraham.
This is the part where
most of us just check out.
Anybody ever do that?
Where you check out,
it's like the genealogy.
I don't check out.
Please don't check out.
So Abraham fathered Isaac, if you
remember, Abraham was where God says,
Hey, I'm gonna make you basically a
mighty nation, as many as the stars.
And Abraham believed God and he
accounted at him as righteousness, right?
And so he was gonna do that through
his son Isaac and Isaac fathered Jacob.
And if you know in a little bit
about Jacob, Jacob is later renamed.
Israel.
And the reason why is because Jacob
has 12 sons, which become the 12
tribes of Israel, 12 tribes of Israel.
So if you think about this,
this is why the people of God
are known as the Israelites.
So that's a really cool thing.
So if we continue on here, then
Jacob fathered Judah, right?
And his brothers Judah Fathered
Perez and Zera and Tamar and Perez.
Fathered Hezron and Hezron fathered.
Aaron Fathered, and I'm not gonna
say I'm all right, and Meab fathered
Na Sean and Neon Fathered Selman
and Selman Fathered Boaz by Rahab,
which is another cool story.
Boaz fathered Obi by.
O fathered Jesse and
Jesse fathered King David.
So this is where we get to
the point of King David.
Most of us understand King David.
Is this the one who killed the Goliath?
Right?
And he became the second king.
Um, and then you see
here, we're gonna go on.
So David fathered Solomon by Uriah's wife
Solomon fathered Raya Bo and Raya Bowman
fathered a Aja and Aja fathered Asa and
Asa fathered JSA fat and Joseph Fat.
Jerome, Jerome fathered us,
US Father Jo Jo fathered.
Aha.
I wanna stop there.
You're wondering, when is Isaiah
writing this During Aha Reign?
So this is the reason why
I'm reading this genealogy.
I want you to see all this
happened to get to Jesus.
We're not even there yet if you're looking
at Isaiah, but this is the point in which
Isaiah is speaking to the people of Israel
and he's speaking to the Southern kingdom.
What do you mean by the Southern kingdom?
Well, here's what.
You had King David, who had obviously
his son Solomon, after Solomon's reign.
He had some sons that
were not really great.
There were some infighting,
some major things that happened
and the kingdom was split.
Does anybody know how
the kingdom was split?
Anybody into two?
How many tribes went to one?
What was that?
So most think it's 11, it's actually 10.
Go to.
Two go to another.
And the reason why Benjamin's, the
smallest tribe, Benjamin goes with Judah.
So it's actually two and 10, but
they call the two the tribe of Judah.
So Benjamin doesn't even
get any credit here.
See, that's what happens, Ben.
He's just humble.
That's what it is.
And then you got the other
10 tribes, which are ruled.
So these kingdoms now become
split and they're split.
And if you are reading in the
Old Testament, you're gonna
hear them talk about, you know,
after obviously the split.
The Israelites or Israel, and you're
gonna hear them, the tribe of Judah, the
tribe of Israel, and the tribe of Judah.
These are the southern kingdom, is the,
the tribe of Judah, and the northern
kingdom is the tribe of Israel.
Isaiah is speaking directly
to the southern kingdom.
So again, trying to pull
these pieces together.
How did we get here?
All these pieces together so he sees
speaking to this southern kingdom.
Um, here's what's happening, Israel.
The Northern Kingdom and
Syria were pressuring Judah
to join them against a Syria.
And Judah didn't like this.
And so King aas as a has, was afraid.
And so he decided to go to Syria for help.
And we're seeing that isn't a
smart thing, and Isaiah's kind
of prophesying against this move.
And so this is where we start seeing
these profits again, prophecies
against Judah, about their
future defeat, exile, and return.
And in the midst of these prophecies,
I'm trying to pull this all together.
In the midst of these prophecies, he
includes these prophecies about a child
who would represent God's presence,
have his characteristics, and have the
responsibilities to rule over his people.
So consistently in the book
of Isaiah, they're living in
a time of now and not yet.
They were hearing about this coming
judgment to exile, but they also
were hearing about a coming king,
which would happen way in the future.
How does this represent to us?
We're way in the future and the
Messiahs came and we're looking.
It's cool to see how God works
everything together, even
all the way back to Abraham.
Why is the whole Bible important?
Used to when I got saved.
I'm telling you, I refused
to read the Old Testament.
It didn't make sense to me.
Now I love it.
Why?
Because I understand
how it works together.
And when we read Matthew chapter one,
we see how it all connects together.
So I wanna finish reading these
genealogies to get us all the way to.
So here's what it says.
Aha fathered heza.
Heza fathered manas manas fathered Aon.
Aon fathered.
Josiah.
Josiah fathered Jhan and his brothers
at the time of the exile to Babylon.
So at this point, this is when they
get exiled after the exile to Babylon.
Jhan fathered.
She Sheila tight, and I don't know
how to say this is a rubber woo.
Fathered a.
Fathered, ECLA, fathered,
azo, oc ache, iod, mathum.
All these down here to Jacob
and then Jacob, father Joseph.
Now we finally get to this, okay.
Jacob, father Joseph, the
husband of Mary who gave birth
to Jesus, who was called Christ.
Interesting fact.
Did you see the line that,
that Matthew pulled here?
Went all the way through Joseph.
Was Joseph the biological father of Jesus?
No, because I mean really he wasn't
because that was the Holy Spirit.
But it's still cool because
it still brought how important
Joseph's lineage to this.
So there's more to this.
I'm not gonna get caught off on this,
but I'm wanting you to see this.
Obviously this all points to Christ,
all the way from Abraham to Christ.
All of these things are here to remind
us that God was working a plan all along.
And if you're wondering why
God's plan is still not fulfilled
yet, which means his second.
They had to wait a long
time for the first coming.
It, it's gonna take a little bit a while
for us to see the second coming as well.
And we don't know this, so let's
kind of stick more to the focus here.
So the first prophecy I wanna talk about
that they, that Isaiah spoke about,
Jesus was in chapter seven, and I wanna
reference this just so we know this.
The first reference was in chapter seven
where he says this in verses 14 through.
Says, therefore, the Lord
himself will give you a sign.
See, the virgin will conceive and
have a sign and name him Emmanuel.
And by the time he learns to reject
what is bad and choose what is good,
he will be eating Kurds and honey.
Where before the boy knows to reject
what is bad and choose what is good.
The land of the two kings
you dread will be abandoned.
And so that's the first point
in which we see the prophecy
of Jesus, the coming Messiah.
And Amanda read in Matthew
chapter one, verse 23.
The affirmation of that prophecy.
And I wanna mention this one more
time and then we're gonna stick
to the text that we have here.
And I wanna read it to you
because this is the cool part.
You see a prophecy and it's
fulfilled in Matthew 1 23.
It says, see, the virgin will become
pregnant and give birth to a son,
and they will name him Manuel.
So this is where we see Isaiah was
pointing towards Christ coming so.
Why did Christ come?
Why was he sent?
And here's the cool part is
we see these names, right?
The second prophecy of Jesus is coming.
Um, and we see these names that
represent him, but I want us to
kind of see how Isaiah describes it.
He says this, he says, for a
child would be born for us, right?
A child will be born for us.
And I think about this, Jesus is a gift
from God who likes receiving gifts.
Couple of you, the rest
of you're like, Nope.
Uh, we were watching a play at
Kings Island and there was, uh, the
Scrooge on there and the guy, all
he had to say was bought humbug.
Those of you who didn't say you
wanted a gift, that must be you.
You don't really care.
Christmas doesn't matter to
you, but I like receiving gifts.
I, I really do.
And, and when I think about a gift,
I like receiving gifts that I really
like, not the the socks that I don't
really like or the underwear that
I know I need, but I like receiving
gifts that mean something to me.
So I want you to view today in
this idea of Jesus's privacy of
this coming gift that you know
you're gonna receive in the future.
Think this direction if you've
ever obviously been waiting
on a child to come, right?
That desire that you are to see your.
This is exactly what we see
here in this coming child.
He says this, for a child,
we'd be born for us, for us.
So all along God had a plan.
We know this back to Adam and
Eve was the reason why we broke
our relationship with God, right?
And we had to have that
relationship restored in some way.
So God decided to do something about it.
He decided to send Jesus to
take the punishment of our sin.
The reason why we have sin in our life
is anything we say do or don't do that
is against God's plan for our life.
That's sin.
It's God's best for us, is what he's
wanting for us, but it's the way we are
living is not even the second best, right?
We are living a second best life or second
rate life when we don't choose God's best.
And so God's sent Jesus for us, right?
For us, not for anybody else but
to be placed in our place of.
But then he goes on, he says this,
A son will be given to us, right?
So Jesus was sent for us because
we couldn't do it on our own.
We couldn't save ourselves from
our sins, but he was given to us.
Think about this.
God had Jesus.
If you think about the whole again,
if you say the Bible enough, Jesus
was there before with God in the
beginning, and then he came to earth
and he will be there in the end.
So Jesus existed before in
heaven, and he left heaven.
He left the presence of.
To go live amongst us to take our place.
See, I think about this picture.
Uh, I mean, I don't know if I could take
someone else's place when it comes to
paying for their sins, because most of
us look at people who deserve punishment
and they say they get what they deserve.
But to think that you would take
their place as something difficult.
And so that's exactly what God did.
God took Jesus out of heaven
and put, placed him on.
To, to, to live the life.
We couldn't live in our place.
So he was given to us.
And then he says this, the
government will be on his shoulders.
This is, I think, an important thought.
All the responsibility
will be on Jesus, not us.
See guided, not only just replace, like
take our place through Jesus, right?
We deserve the punishment.
But Jesus came and took our place, but
then he took all the weight of the.
You guys ever had to make an
important decision where you
felt like that depending on which
direction you choose, it was gonna
change the trajectory of your life.
Those are weighty decisions.
You fill them.
Well, Jesus coming and taking the weight
of the sin and the judgment, he took
that weight off of us and placed it
on himself, and he placed the future.
Um, and we'll talk more about that as
well as this future kingdom coming.
He placed all that
responsibility on Jesus.
When I think about leadership, I think
about leaders who take on responsibility,
and the more that people that you
lead, the more responsibility you feel.
Jesus is the king of
the world of all people.
Imagine that weight that was on
Jesus' shoulders for coming to
earth and given being given to
us and for us to take our place.
See, God's red plan has always been
about generosity and always been about.
Us and helping us.
And so when we think about this season
of Christmas, and I know I haven't
even gotten to the major word in this.
When you think about the season
of Christmas, a lot of times we
think about what we don't have.
I mean, most of us, I
mean, you could be wrong.
I wish we had a little bit
more money to buy more gifts.
I wish we had more time.
I wish we could go more places.
You know, I, I, it's like, I seem like
I want more during this Christmas.
But when I read about all that God gave
during the season, I really kind of want
to just receive that and maybe give a
little bit of that to people because God
has given us so much during the season.
We don't need anything else.
He is the perfect present.
He is the perfect gift that we could
ever receive during the season.
And the cool part is it's a never ending.
It's here every day and it's here
when it's not Christmas season, guys,
on January 1st, Jesus is still the
greatest gift we'll ever be given.
Same thing on July 1st.
We can celebrate Christmas in
July cuz it's the greatest gift
that's ever been given to us.
But why do we take seasons like Christmas
to remember well, why do we take days
once a year to celebrate your birthday?
Because we wanna recognize
the special gift of your.
And if we didn't do that,
sometimes we would just neglect
how important our lives are.
Right.
How important our lives are.
And so I think it's pretty special.
Even though I don't like people
singing to me and all that,
I do think it's pretty cool.
Whenever it is my birthday and I get to
choose the cake cuz it's cookie brownies.
I love cookie brownies.
Right.
That's what I want for my cake.
And it's not cake.
I know, but, but it's about me and
it's kind of, because it's special.
So we take time during Christmas to
remember how special Jesus is, and the
cool part is we'll never get tired of
talking about how special Jesus is.
So now you're wondering, are
we ever gonna get there to
talk about the names of Jesus?
We're here.
Okay, I wanna set some of this up.
So the child, the Savior, Jesus,
will have many names, right?
These names are given to us,
to comfort us, to encourage
us, to remind us who Jesus is.
And the first one we see here is this,
for this child will be born for us,
the son will be given to us, and the
government will be on his shoulders
and he will be named wonderful.
C.
I begin to just look at this like
I, I mean, again, if I'm gonna talk
about just a name during the majority
of my message, I'm gonna spend a lot
of time just thinking through, what
is the word wonderful counselor mean?
Why is this important for us today?
Why would God place that name through
Isaiah's words and a prophecy to
the people of Judah and us as well?
Well, number one, let's
just look at context.
The people of Judah were getting ready
to go into exile and judgment for their.
They were gonna need a wise counselor.
They're gonna need somebody who could
counsel them above and beyond anything
they could understand and fully know.
I would say that same thing for us.
So let's kind of dive
into wonderful counselor.
First of all, let's dive
into the first part of it.
Wonder, when you think of wonderful,
you have to start with wonder.
Wonder is extraordinary.
It's hard to understand.
It's something that you marvel.
But now let's add the
full part of it, right?
Wonderful means extreme wonder,
full of wonder, astonishing.
And I wanna place this one
above our comprehension.
So now let's look at the counselor part
and then we're gonna put it all together.
So he's a wonderful counselor.
So a counselor is an advisor
to give advice on life, to
walk alongside and to guide.
I think of it this way, a blind person
with a stick that is obviously trying
to figure out where they're going.
God is our guide in our lives, so
I wanna put this together for us.
Jesus is above anything in the world
that we can comprehend when it comes
to guiding and directing our lives.
Jesus is above anything in the world
that we can comprehend when it comes
to guiding and directing our lives.
Let's name a few things.
When you need advice, where do you go?
Where do you go?
Google your dad.
What a friend, husband.
Hmm.
Bible.
Hey, look at you being spiritual.
That's good.
Anybody just go with their gut feeling?
Uh, this feels right, right?
Yeah.
I think we go a lot of places,
and again, those places are good,
but what if there's a person?
What if there's a savior that.
Has above our comprehension understanding
of how we should live in the midst
of our circumstances, because
y'all know we have difficulties.
We have sickness, we have death,
we have financial struggles,
we have relational struggles.
We also have just a life in general to
live and, and lots of decisions to make
and lots of things that'll affect not only
our future, but everybody else's future.
And let's just even think
about eternity, man.
There's a lot of things
that weigh into that.
How do we know how to make those
decisions live life, and be
guided in the right direction?
Jesus, when we, when we look at
this text and we see that the coming
Messiah, Jesus is a wonderful counselor.
Above our comprehension and
understanding they can guide and direct
our lives in the way we should go.
To me, it's a logical
ding, ding, ding, ding.
That's where we should go every day.
That's where we should go every
moment for every part of our lives.
By a raise of hands, how many
of y'all go there every day
because you're just so great.
Great.
Not me.
I'm putting down my hand.
I was just doing that to
show you how to do it.
Cause I don't, like, I'm telling you
guys, like I, I sit here and I'm starting
to think through this Sears, and I'm
going, okay, here's who Jesus is.
He's, he's this coming aside that's
gonna be a wonderful counselor.
And I'm reading about it and I'm
going, man, this guy's awesome man.
Why don't I like seek
his counsel more often.
Why, why do I not like, understand
his knowledge of my life is way
broader than I can understand
because I get so narrow minded.
Let me just give you a great example.
I think the world's fallen
apart in the last year.
We don't know why we
couldn't find a facility.
I mean, I, God, we need one.
I mean like this works, but
we really need something else.
And I'm wondering what God's doing and
I'm like thinking, what am I doing?
I'm searching Google.
I'm asking friends, consulting
pastors, talking to people using my
gut feeling and nothing works, man.
God, what are you doing?
Like, I don't get it.
I didn't even understand and comprehend
that God's knowledge is greater than our
knowledge, and I believe God is aligning
what he's had all, all along with us
and our next location at the Y M C A.
I think he is.
How do I see that?
By, by realizing that looking
back, God has been aligning this
up forever, but I've just, I
was counseling the wrong people.
I was searching the wrong things.
And even in that searching, maybe there
was a good heart at times, but most of the
time I was coming back to my own heart.
So I'm just giving you a practical
example because I want you guys
to just make fun of me and make,
you know, make me the bad guy.
But I know you guys probably
struggled with some of that.
So my hope is that when we look at
this and we think about how wonderful
the counselor of Jesus is, that we
will not go another day or another
moment before we counsel the Lord.
Lord, what is it that
you have planned for me?
Here's the cool part in God's
wonderful counsel in sending Jesus,
did you know that he knew you would
be here in this moment and this
day with this breath and this life?
He did.
And you know what he's saying in
this moment, in this breath and in
this message, you and me need to hear
that he is a wonderful counselor.
That he wants to guide and direct our
lives according to his plan, which as
we learn more and more and more, God's
plan is greater than ours, guaranteed.
100%.
Why?
Because he's a wonderful counselor.
He ha he has the ability and
knowledge of way more than.
He has plans that are way greater
than I'll ever fulfill on my own.
But you know what happens?
Tomorrow is gonna be another
day for me to get distracted
because there's so much going.
And I'm used to, I'm a routine person.
I'm used to counseling myself
or going to other things.
So I've gotta reorient my brain and my
life around the understanding that God has
sent Jesus to be a wonderful counselor.
He's better than our parents.
He's better than Google.
He's better than a dictionary.
And just so you know, if we didn't
mention this, he's better than Facebook.
This fact checkers doesn't work
every time, just so you know.
Doesn't work.
So think about this, Jesus.
Was sent with the idea to
guide and direct our lives.
God has given us this resource.
So I wanna ask, I I want to ask this.
I know I don't have to ask this question.
I know everybody in here's
got a cell phone, right?
Great.
Okay.
Majority of it's got a cell phone.
Um, do you think that you use that
phone to its best capabilities?
Raise your hand if you do.
Now, some of you may.
Do you use it to its best
capabilities that it was designed for?
No.
Most of us don't.
Maybe Orville, he's, no.
Okay.
Not even Orville.
Um, and here, let me just tell you,
like, I, I have a phone that I think
I just text and email and phone call
occasionally and, and I don't have the
apps I don't even use, like, I don't, I
don't use it to its best capabilities.
Well, that's simple technology, but
I want us to think about it this way.
Jesus is an untapped resource
that we have on hand every day.
That we're using very least capabilities.
We know he is there as our savior.
He'll get us into heaven.
I know, I know.
You know, he, he loves me.
Well, I know.
You know, so like we, we, we bring
it down to the basics level and
we use email and we use texting.
We use phone call.
We use our relationship with Jesus
as the basics and we're good.
But God is sitting here saying this.
Have you heard about my council?
Like that's an upgrade.
Have you heard about how
much more I have for you?
If you would just spend some time
with me, if you would just understand.
My council is amazing.
So I think this way too many of
us claim faith in Jesus and never
experience him to the fullest.
Too many of us claim faith in Jesus, but
we never experience him to the fullest.
Jesus is not something we just buy
put on our shelf to look pretty.
I'll put it this way.
He was also not made to
be an insurance plan.
I started thinking through this.
I think sometimes we treat
our relationship with
Jesus as an insurance plan.
It's a life insurance plan.
What happens to the life insurance plan?
It gets paid out when you're dead.
And that's why we keep it.
That's what we're hoping for.
Does that not fit in with
our faith these days?
Sometimes it's gonna get paid out.
I'm gonna go to heaven.
That's all I need Jesus for.
And it's like, oh man.
Like that sticks in me
when I started thinking.
Jesus is more than an insurance plan.
Jesus is my savior.
Jesus is a wonderful counselor.
Jesus is a mighty God.
Jesus is an eternal father.
Jesus is a prince of peace.
See, he is so many things, and
that's why as you begin to study
God's word, you'll see more and
more names for God or for Jesus.
Why?
So that we can relate to Him, so
that we can understand how he.
It's a part of our life.
And, and I think we can even do that with
each other as we begin to think about,
you know, I don't just have a wife, but
I have someone who loves me and cares
for me and, and long suffering for me.
And there's so many different words you
could use for the way in which she shows
her affection or she relates to me.
And those are important for
me to know because that's how
much I know she cares for me.
It's not just because she's my.
It's not just because he's my savior, but
there's these names that helps us know
the layers and the many layers of God.
Why is it important for us to know this?
Because if we don't understand
this, just like our phones, we'll
experience God's best for us.
Very little because we only get to
experience a little portion of it because
we don't know how the rest of it works.
So God is drawing us in during the
season of Christmas to remember why
he came to save us from our sins.
But to remember that he came to give us
more than to just salvation from our sins.
He gave us hope.
He gave us love.
He gave us guidance and
direction and faith and mercy.
And I think more and more about this
every day, how I miss it because I
don't recognize God in those areas.
See, I think that's why
it's important to remember.
Remember that we have God through Jesus
in our lives, to counsel us to, to
be the greatest gift in this season.
To help us in our lives and our
marriages and our kids and in our
finances during stress and death
and decisions and purity and health.
You name it.
God is a wonderful counselor.
He is a mighty God.
He is the princip of peace.
He is an eternal father.
And my hope today is we think through
this and I know it gave you a lot
of background on the front end, and
as we finish up today that we can
take this one or two words, I guess
it is, and think on it this week.
Think on it, meditate on it.
Think about how his wonder and how
wonderful he is and how he is a counselor
and a guider in your life, and maybe this
is for you to think, how often do you
go to him for counsel just on the day to
day basis, or how often do you set him
on a shelf and not figuratively, right?
Figuratively, not literally.
You set him on a shelf and you
come to him in desperate times.
Oh man.
Now there's a financial struggle.
Oh God, help me.
What if God wants to counsel what you do
tomorrow in your job and in your home?
What if God wants to show you above
and beyond anything you could imagine
in your life this next week as you
gather around friends, as you go
about the activities in your life?
What if God wants you to experience that?
I think he.
I think he wants all of
us to experience that.
So all the things we do during this
Christmas season can easily distract
us from the true reason of why we
celebrate it in the first place.
Everything we do to celebrate during
the season should flow out of our
relationships with Jesus and our
knowledge of understanding the gift
that he has given us is so much
greater than anything else we can have.
So there's more in this passage
we're gonna go through next
week, we'll dive more into.
But I think that we can take a few
things with us, and I think this time
of invitation allows us to do that.
I, I, I try to explain this every week.
Invitation can become redundant.
It can become something that we just
close our eyes and we do whatever
the pastor says, and we, we may
worship a little bit at the end,
and then we high five everybody
and head home and eat some lunch.
Maybe that's not you, but I know
this, and this is why I do this.
I do not want you to get in the
routine of doing the same thing
every week that we have in.
I want you to seriously, I'm going
to do the same thing back there.
That's what I do.
I start considering, what
did God speak to you about?
I know there was a lot today.
What did God speak to you about?
How can you take his wonderful counsel
and begin to apply it into your life?
How can you take this Christmas season?
I'm just giving you some waste.
I can take this Christmas season
and reorient it around the story of
who Jesus is and why he came not.
All the other things.
For some of you, maybe it's just
a, a relationship with Jesus.
If you haven't given your life to Jesus,
that's where it starts because you can't
receive this wonderful counsel until
you actually have God living inside you.
How do you do that?
By repeating up your sins and turning to
Jesus and saying, yes, Lord, I need you.
I would love to talk to you more
about that if you have questions, but
maybe this last thing that you need
to pray and this is what I'm gonna.
Pray and ask God to remind you that he
is a wonderful counselor, that he is
ready to guide and direct your life, to
fulfill his work in your life and the
life of others to experience his best.
That's what I, I'm, I'm, I'm just,
I want to be as honest as I can.
I don't just preach messages.
These messages literally fill
me and they challenge me.
I don't feel like I've done a great
job of seeking his wonderful counsel.
And I am repenting in these seasons
and asking God to help me do that.
That's my challenge to you.
I don't wanna challenge you to
do anything that I'm not doing.
God is greater than anything that we have.
May we cherish him as our precious
gift during this time of Christmas.
May God challenge you during this time
of invitation to reflect on how you apply
his wonderful counsel to your lives.
Let's pray.
Lord Jesus, we love you.
God.
We are so thankful.
For your word, even though it
is vast Lord for your word, even
though sometimes it's difficult to
understand, Lord, we're thankful for it.
And Lord, as we reflect on the book of
Isaiah and all the prophecies that he
prophesied about, Lord, we are coming to
this point where he prophesied about a
coming savior one Lord, that the tribe of,
uh, Judah Lord didn't fully comprehend.
And Lord, we don't fully comprehend,
even though we've seen Jesus.
Well, Lord, we're reflecting today
to remember why you sent him and,
and you sent him to be a wonderful
counselor for every one of us.
God, I pray that we have learned
today that Jesus can help us.
Jesus can be our
counselor in time of need.
He can be our counselor every
day in everyday decision.
He can guide and direct our lives
when it's difficult and when
it's easy, that he can remind
us of who he is and why he came.
And Lord, he can also remind us Lord
of our purpose, that we are not here
with breath in our lungs just for
ourselves, but for the sake of others
who don't know you, God, may you begin
to put a burden on our hearts for
those around us who don't know you, and
begin to invite them in to experience.
God, you are so good and
you have changed our lives.
And Lord, we do.
We want others to
experience that same thing.
So Lord, help each one of us open
our hearts and our minds today during
an invitation to repent or to just
Lord, remember what you've done for
us and to guide direct our lives
in this season ahead, the Lord.
We pray this in your heavenly name.
Amen.